How did we build websites in the past?
And I think this is kind
of a good history lesson.
So in the past, we build websites by using
a server side technology like PHP rails.
I'm not picking on any of these, right?
There's a lot more out there.
I'm just saying we use something other
than JavaScript to render on a server.
And then this actually turns
out to be very performant,
because the browser just
had to show up HTML.
There was no JavaScript, and so
this is pinnacle of performance, right?
The problem is it's not interactive.
And so people introduced, basically,
jQuery to add interactivity.
And this actually was a good
solution in terms of performance and
the user experience, cuz it was fast, but
it was not very good in terms
of developer experience.
And the problem here is that
it's very error prone and
you basically have to
know multiple languages.
And not only is it error prone, but
you actually have to oftentimes
write the same thing twice.
So if you go to a page that shows
a list of contacts, the PHP or whatever
the server side technology you have has
to know how to render those contacts.
But then in the client,
you wanna be able to add a contact.
And now you have a problem of, well,
now I have to do the code twice,
once on a server, so that I can
render the contacts initially, and
then in the client, so that the jQuery
can add a contact on a client.
So now I am basically doing
the same thing twice.
I have to do validation twice,
I have to do rendering twice,
I have to do data binding twice,
and so this is error prone.
And so with current set of technologies,
it was all about developer experience.
Like, let's improve
the developer experience.
And so the approach we took with
all of these frameworks, and
Angular was one of the first ones,
I think, was the idea that you have
a unified model, meaning,
both server and a client are same code.
Actually, all these frameworks
basically started with saying,
let's just do everything on the client.
Forget the server,
And then as an afterthought,
they said, well, there's a problem,
can we do some of it on a server?
And because this was an afterthought,
it never really lived up to its potential.
But the nice thing about this particular
world is that it's all just JavaScript.
You have no code duplications, there's
a unified mental model, everything is in
a single framework, but you have this
problem, that your application runs twice.
It runs once on a server to
generate the initial HTML, and
then it runs again on a client.
And if you think about it, the HTML that
was rendered on a server, that HTML can
be thrown away because when a client
reruns, it will rebuild everything, right?
The HTML that came from
the server was only there for
you to kind of look at something while
the page is kind of being loaded.
And so we're kind of having this,
basically,
the problem with this
particular world is hydration.
Because in order to become interactive,
we need to run hydration, and
hydration is basically rerunning
the whole website from scratch, right?
Yeah, we can reuse DOM nodes, but
it turns out that if you deleted the HTML,
the framework was just recreated.
So yes, it can sort of reuse it, so
we use fancy word like reconciliation.
But at the end of the day,
the DOM nodes are unnecessary.
If they're not there the framework just
recreates everything from scratch.
And so, the good mental model is
basically, yes, HTML showed up,
we're gonna throw it away and we're
gonna rebuild everything in the client.
And that's exactly what's happening.
So what does the future hold?
And so, this is where, I think we
have a good developer experience, but
we need to get better at the performance.
And so, the future, in my opinion,
is all about keeping the DX we have, but
adding a good performance to it.
And again, when I talk about performance,
I don't mean the runtime performance.
I don't mean the performance
in a sense of the solid JS,
which is one of the fastest
frameworks out there.
I'm talking about a startup performance.
I'm specifically talking about,
how long does it take for
a user to click on a link and
then seeing what they wanna see,
the site that they wanna see, and
being able to interact with it, right?
The problem we have is not how long
does it take to add a thousand items in
the shopping cart, right?
Because most of the benchmarks are like,
add 1 ,000 items into something.
That's not our problem.
The problem is,
we can't click on that button to add
a single item into the shopping cart.
Okay, so there's a couple of frameworks
out in this category that are worth
talking about.
And obviously QUIC, which is kind of
what we're talking about today, but
turns out eBay has
a framework called Marco,
which they have not done very good job
of kind of telling the world about.
But Marco version 6, which is just about
to be released, apparently has hydration.
I've spent a lot of time chatting
with my friends at eBay, and
they're doing a lot of cool stuff
in that particular department.
And they are approaching the hydration
story that the QUIC has as well.
And there's also Google Ways,
Google Ways is an internal
framework that is not public.
>> Is this form a first visit perspective?
>> Form of what?
>> First visit perspective,
as far as the boot up time.
>> So, everything we talked about for
startup performance is both for
the first time visit and
the subsequent visit, right?
So, the first time you visit,
obviously, it's a little slower,
because you have to
download the JavaScript.
But the issue here isn't
the download of JavaScript,
the issue here is the execution
of JavaScript, right?
So while the cost of the Javascript
download might be on the order of,
I don't know, a second or two,
I'm just making up a number.
The execution might be on
the order of multiple seconds,
like ten plus seconds, right?
So even if you do a subsequent visit and,
of course, this time you can skip
the download of Javascript, it's not
gonna make a huge performance impact.
>> And then they're asking about, what
about frameworks like Astro and Eleventy.
>> Yes, so those are good questions, what
about frameworks like Astro and Eleventy?
So, frameworks like Astro and
Eleventy basically say
they wanna move away from
JavaScript as much as possible.
And their point is,
how about we just don't have JavaScript.
So they're kinda going back in past.
And the point I'm trying to
make with QUIC is that like,
I don't wanna give up on
the amount of JavaScript we have,
we need that JavaScript, but we just
don't wanna download it all up front.
So the way Astra, for example, deals with
it, is they break the application into,
Those islands, and
then they can lazy hydrate those islands.
So with Astro, the debate isn't about
the amount of JavaScript that needs to get
downloaded, the debate is about like, when
exactly am I doing the hydration work?
So you're pushing the hydration
work into later point in time
instead of doing everything up front.
So a framework like Astro, the debate
is about not if I'm gonna do hydration,
it's when am I gonna do the hydration,
right?
That's one point.
The second point with frameworks like
Astro is that, because they break up your
app into small islands, these islands
are essentially independent applications.
And now you have to have an inter-island
communication problem that you have
to solve.
And so, I don't wanna think
of my application as many,
many small applications, I really wanna
just think of it as an application and
I want to just be able
to do all of this stuff.
The other point is, with Astro,
you actually have to set up your islands
by yourself and kind of do everything.
So it is definitely a step in the right
direction, but I don't think it addresses
the application problem space that
we're trying to address over here.
And I wanna point out that we are not
the first ones to think about this problem
this particular way,
there were others before us, right, and
I wanna give credit to them.
And the biggest one is Google Wits.
So every time you go to Google Search,
the Google Search page is actually
running on top of Google Wits.
So the framework that the Google search
page is built with is Google Wit.
And part of was our open source.
So for example, one part is called
JS Action, that thing is open source.
There is a,
templating system is open source, so
it's not all of it is proprietary,
some of it Is open source, but
kind of the most bits
are proprietary to Google.
Now what's interesting about Google Wits,
is that if you go to the search page,
first of all, you will all agree that
Google is amazingly fast, right?
Second thing is, you cannot get into
a situation where you wanna interact with
Google search which
page before it's ready?
Like that just doesn't happen.
And the last thing I want to point out is
like people often says like, Yeah, but
it's like a search page.
It's like simple.
I'm like, have you looked at that thing?
Like if you put in like, a plus b
equals seven like it shows you a graph.
You know, if you search for a movie,
it like shows you a movie listing and
then you can scroll Through the carousel.
Like, there's different queries.
If you search for an address,
there's a map that's actually
scrollable in there, right?
There are pretty complicated
use cases hidden inside of
the Google search thing
that is powered by Wiz.
Now, Wiz was built about 10 years ago.
And.
The ideas are kind of similar, but the way
it actually works is quite different and
one of the things about Wiz is that
because of historical reasons,
because we built ten years ago,
or about a decade ago,
the developer experience is not the best,
right?
But the end user experience is amazing.
Right.
And so the thing that we want
really is how do we marry this?
How do we have an amazing developer
experience that we're so used to,
but how do we have this
performance that we want?
Right?
And so my argument here is that the future
is about having both a good dx and
good performance.
And so how do we merge basically,
the rendering and
inter Interactivity into
a single framework,
which is the DX that we have before and
have a unified mental model, right?
Which we talked about about how
there's one state and all the parts,
but kind of we only run the app once.
We don't have the problem that when
we show up to a particular website,
there's this huge amount of
JavaScript we have to execute
because a huge amount of JavaScript Is
what's killing us, right?
And and the problem is you can't optimize.
You can't make it to execute
the JavaScript faster,
that's not a thing we can do, yes.
>> Yes, I have just one question,
how do you see the MFA architecture,
which is in trend these days?
>> Yes.
>> I mean, complex e-commerce
website has multiple MFA and
then-
>> Yes,
I think that that's a great question.
So, microphones are, I think are super
cool, we can actually get tomorrow into,
I have an awesome demo of
building a e-commerce website.
And that demo is made up basically of, the
header gets rendered on a separate URL,
the the hero section gets rendered
separately The shopping cart gets rendered
separately.
And then it all gets
assembled into one piece.
And then the nice thing about it is that
Quick is really good at hosting multiple,
essentially Quick containers,
we call containers, on a page.
And the Quick knows how to wake
them up in the correct order and
how to interact with one container
before the other container is ready.
And so.
All of those things are things that
Quick is kind of almost made for.
And the reason for that is because Quick
App can be serialized into just HTML.
And because it's just HTML,
it's really easy for
a microphone to just concatenate a bunch
of HTML together into a final product.
Something that's not possible with
existing technologies because existing is
a mixture of JavaScript and HTML and
CSS and loading strategies and
order matters and all of these things,
and becomes kind of difficult.
And so quick makes it easy.